Topic 1 lap prep and post-op
lap excision weeks first back still time two months post one surgeon ago recovery week removed last hysterectomy much years done ablation better took second

['Minimum 2 of not working at all, 3 weeks if you can work from home for the last week. I was out a full month for my last one and I’m stage 4 and I had bowel, bladder, ligaments, and everything else you can think of and I originally said 3 weeks but got an infection. Without the infection I think I could’ve gone back in 3 if I took it lightly.']
["My body also tends to heal really slowly, so I'm hoping my bowel issues will improve over the next few months. My friend who had a c-section told me that it takes time for your bowel to re-settle since it's been moved around a lot during your surgery. On top of that, things were cut off &amp; sutured...so I'm not surprised they need a little more time to heal!"]
['As far as recovery, I found both of mine to be pretty similar. A lot just depends on what all they do when they are in there, if she finds she has to remove a lot of legions and tissue then you might find it takes a bit longer to recover. On my second my doctor told me he was more aggressive with removal, but overall the recovery seemed about the same still. ']
["It honestly depends, I went to a well known endo excision surgeon who removed stage 3 along with a bladder resection. Had to have another surgery 11 months later. It's been 5 months after my second lap and so far so good. It mostly depends on stage, location of lesions and the technique the dr has used to remove endo"]
['I had my lap 4 weeks ago (21 June). The surgeon found significant and more endo stuck to a fibroid. He had to shave back a bit of my bowel and put tubes in my ureters during surgery (which were then removed). Fortunately, he was able to excise everything that he found. I have been off work recovering, and it has been going well overall.']
['Lap 1 - pain relief but pain came back in a year\nLap 2 - only a little relief, but far more painful, but surgery burned growths as opposed to cutting out growths.\nLap 3 - a little pain relief, but still in pain\nLap 4 - no growth found, but "released scar tissue" and there was a lot of pain relief']
["I'm super new here, have my first ever surgery on April 18. Is bowel prep normal for pre-surgery? My doc is doing a diagnostic lap, as well as removing my tubes. Bowel prep might just make this whole thing worse. I'm already panicking a bit (a lot). "]
['Well my surgery is 7/12 and I was going to take 6 days off including the weekend and go back 7/18. I got told can’t you come back that Monday it’s not an invasive surgery. I was like. I don’t know what my body will do/act/how I will feel. So no I’m coming back on the 18 and they were like what about the 17 and I was like no. The 18. And they were like but it’s not like they’re removing organs. It’s just tissue it’s like getting a cut you’ll be fine. ']
['They told me about an hour, I never asked how long it took after but the most would have been an hour and a half, I had a few things done at the same time so that probably added some time on. If there is really extensive endo then maybe it would take a little longer for the dr to excise it all but if it’s a specialist it’s usually pretty fast.']
['Hi! I had my first lap in 2014 or 2015 (can’t remember) and I was only really out of commission for a few days. They told me about a week recovery which was right. With that being said, I had robotic excision surgery a week ago and I’m still recovering. I think it all just depends on how your body handles the procedure. ']
["Maybe you're overdoing things? As you can only heal once and better do it well especially as it can take 3 to 6 months to heal from excision but a full year isn't uncommon either. I needed almost a year to heal from mine."]
['Mine was almost 2 hours. It really depends on how extensive the endo is, and also what instruments the surgeon uses. Robotic is quicker than traditional lap. I had extensive stage 4, but my surgeon used da vinci robot so it went a lot faster.']
['They do cut you open actually, you’ll have two to three small cuts, one in your bellybutton and one or two around your abdomen. They’re very small, but it is a surgery. You’ll be under anesthesia, and you will be cut open. That said, it’s not risky hardly at all.']
['I waited about two and a half weeks. Pre-surgery I was told to wait two weeks and the surgery ended up being a bit more complicated than predicted, but two and a half weeks was good for me. Just go slow, be patient, have fun 😊']
['On the one hand, if you were absolutely covered in it some could have been missed (even in the hands of a good surgeon). On the other hand, this could still be part of the healing process (nerves that were minor my damaged during surgery “waking up”). ']
['I had my excision this past summer. Waited 10 weeks for my consult, but I only had to wait about 6 weeks from my consult with the surgeon/excision specialist til the surgery date. I was expecting a much longer wait time, so I felt lucky.']
["My doc said 3-5 days. Ha! I took a week and a half and would've preferred at least two weeks. We're all different though. They did extensive work so I think that is why I needed more time. You just can't know how bad it is till after they go in."]
['Laparoscopy and excision are done at the same time. The excision is done laparoscopically with tools on the probes. It takes about three different inch long incisions on your abdomen. They’re not large at all, so I wouldn’t worry about it.']
['Definitely two weeks to be relatively sure you’ll be fine getting up and about. I ended up needing 1.5 weeks before I went back to work but I should have taken the full 2 in hindsight (for rest as well as recovery).']
['I healed faster after excision, but I had less surgery that time. The first time I had ablation of my Endo, and also had my Fallopian tubes removed. The second time, I had excision, and had one spot excised on my ligaments on my right side and had my appendix removed. It took me probably 6-7 weeks to feel back to normal after my first surgery (ablation), and probably 4-5 weeks after excision. ']
['I had excision and a hysterectomy on Wednesday, and my surgeon said to expect to go back to work and light daily activities within 2 weeks, and other activities at 6 weeks, but not expect a full recovery for at least 3-6 months. It sucks that it takes so long, but the best thing to do right now is take it easy and remember that you’re still healing. It will get better ❤️']
['Yes! I had a lap two years ago and had the same endo pain for about two months post-op. I attributed it to having excision scars/wounds that were healing but they dissipated over time. I am now two weeks post hysterectomy and have had the same experience.']
['I’m now 6-1/2 weeks post-op from excision and a total hysterectomy, but I kept my ovaries. Still recovering and have had a lot of surgical complications, so still TBD what my new normal really looks like. ']
['Next three were ablation only, with lots of adhesion removal. This last one (that I’m hoping will be the last one ever) was excision with lots of adhesion removal and organ involvement. ']
['Also, almost all surgeries are done laparoscopically, which is minimally invasive and generally done through 3 small incisions in your abdomen. Still takes a while to heal internally, but at least the incisions are small!']
['I went back to my desk job after two weeks, and started exercising lightly at about 3.5 weeks. My doctor warned me that if I needed a bowel resection (I didn’t) it would be more like 4 weeks before I was able to work.']
['My belly button incision kinda changed my belly button shape, mine goes off to the right a bit now because of the scar. Mine is fully healed because my surgery was like 2 years ago']
['Hi, just curious if you had an ablation or an excision? \nMy first surgery was just an ablation (burning away Endo, not removing) and my pain came back literally within 3 months and needed another surgery within a year and a half. \nSo, if you did an ablation, look into an excision instead. \nI know having two surgeries back to back sucks, but that’s the only time I’ve had relief was after surgery #2 (excision)']
['With my first lap I took 1 week off work. I felt that one week was not quite long enough, so after my second lap I took two weeks off. At the end of the two weeks I was anxious to get back to work. If and when I have a third I will most likely take 1.5 weeks off, and then maybe work a few half days after that. ']
["I got my (second) lap end of July last year and although everything is healed now, the scar in my belly button is still sensitive. I'm sure that will go away with time, though. They made the cut in the same spot where I was cut in the first lap, and that first cut felt totally normal after a while."]
['Ok I feel kinda worried about this one . I just had my first lap 7 weeks ago tomorrow . Endo everywhere , it was holding my bowels under my uterus , had my appendix removed , cysts removed . ']
['Speaking from experience. I had two ablations. The surgeries left more scar tissue then any endo previously there. I was in soooo much more pain due to the scar tissue until my excision surgeon cleaned it all up.']
["So far, so good. I had it May 12 so it's still early to tell. I have had two laps for excision before this. I was so excited to be pain free after both of them but that was very short-lived. This is my third surgery in 3 years for endo/PCOS so I'm really hopeful. "]
['It depends on a lot of variables. My recent excision of stage 3/4 endo (which effected multiple organs), took me about 2.5 weeks before I could go back to work, and that ended up being to soon for me. ']
['I just had my first lap with an excision specialist.  The surgery was supposed to be 2 hours but it ended up being 4 hours.  She said I had endo literally everywhere, so she was only able to get 90% of it since it was risky to remove it from my diaphragm and bowels.']
['I had a laparoscopy about a year and a half ago - it was my first ever general anaesthetic and for that reason I was pretty nervous. I was told I would need two weeks off work to recover. ']
['Second one they did a ton of excision, and removed one of my tubes, my appendix, and a massive Endometrioma that was covering one of my ovaries. That time I needed two days off. ']
['Definitely call and ask your doctor to be safe but I had a weird lump behind one of my lap scars that went away at about 6 weeks post op that was just a small hematoma']
['I had my last lap in January. They expected around 3 hours to work on my frozen pelvis, but endend working for 7 hours since they had to call in a surgeon to remove/tuck back a 9 cm piece of my colon.']
['2 months is still too early to tell how effective the surgery was for improving your pain. The body takes a while to heal itself, especially after being cut up from the inside. My surgeon said the first three periods will likely be worse and that it may even take a bit longer to fully heal and see the final results.']
['I also work from home and I’ve had two laps this past year. First one was a diagnostic, they didn’t do any excision. They just drained a cyst. I was back at work the next day. ']
['A week ago the catheter could finally be removed and yesterday I got rid of the drainage. In eight weeks I am scheduled for the removal of the ureter stent.  ']
['I’ve had 10 abdominal surgeries total.  For any laps (9 of my 10) it’s been the same: Absorbable sutures, dermabond (a glue that seals your skin), and steri-strips.  Some don’t use both the glue and steristrips, but one or the other.']
['My diagnostic, with no removal of lesions took me a week and a half to recover from and that was without infection. My second lap, where I did end up with an infection took me three weeks. ']
['So strange that you posted this bc mine is looking the exact same! I am 6 weeks post lap the remaining 3 are normal. Heading back to surgeon next week though.']
["I've got mine coming up on a Wednesday as well, may 1st; and I'm super freaking nervous as well. I've never had any surgical procedures done before either."]
['I had a ring of scar tissue removed from inside my vagina as well, which as far as I was told is not common, but I know nothing about how that’s supposed to heal or how long it should take either.']
['My lap 2 weeks ago caused some bruising, and it freaked me out because my first lap had no bruising.  But my doc said bruising is a normal part of the process!  Did you have excision surgery?']
["In terms of the surgery, not all of the endo was removed, but what was done made me feel a bit better for a couple of years. It's getting pretty bad again now though so might be due another go. "]
["I took 3 weeks off work last time. I'm optimistic that I can go back in 2 this time. Both times I was told to not lift &gt;10 pounds for four weeks. No exercising before this, either."]
["2. Pain is to be expected because, even though the surgery is minimally invasive and outpatient, it's still surgery and your body will take time to recover. I'm not sure if you had excision or ablation, but recovery from excision takes anywhere from 6 months to a year! So I wouldn't be surprised if your pain isn't completely gone, your body takes a while to heal."]
['I had surgery about three months ago, and I felt relief right away, but I only had minimal adhesions and one of my tubes was being pulled on, so having that separated helped a lot with my day-to-day pain. My mom had her first surgery with the same doctor about a month ago and he found tons of endo and her recovery has been a lot slower than mine. ']
['Why are you going back to work on Monday? Minimum recovery time for explotatory lap is 1 week for return to work with 6-8 weeks for full recovery. My last lap I took 3 weeks to start to feel better as they had to do a lot internally even tho I had 3 teeny incisions.']
["I've had two laps -- one last April, and one last October. The first lap left me with a 3 cm scar and a 1 cm scar. The second re-used the 1 cm incision, and then gave me two more 1 cm scars. They have all faded a bunch, even the ones from October, and that wasn't even a year ago. The big scar I had from my first surgery is barely noticeable at all now -- I actually struggled to find the ends to measure it just now."]
['I had my surgery about 11 years ago? I had an incision in my belly button and pubic area, I was a little sore, achy. Had the surgery on a Friday and was back at work Monday. The thing I remember the most was removing the strips they put over my stitches, steri strips I think? That was painful, but otherwise no big deal! I was told that there wasn’t much to remove but I could tell it helped in the months following and I’m happy that I went through with it.']
["Unfortunately when they were in there in February they found out that the endo was engulfing my colon and I would need a resection with a colorectal surgeon. They made the precaution of having me meet one prior to my first surgery and having him on site, but he only had an hour time block and wouldn't be able to complete it on that day... probably for the best because both of my surgeries ran almost 5 hours. I had the procedure done with Dr Tam. They found more endo the second time around, she cleared me out before and after he did the resection."]
['They say it can take 6 months for things to settle down post lap. My first was awful, second was lots better and then 3rd and 4th were terrible again ']
['It has been a month since my surgery. My three incisions have healed very well. I was off work for two weeks and the first few days back were a little rough but I got through. ']
['This. I took off a month after excision and then slowly worked back up to full time hours. It was about 12 weeks honestly before I felt more back to normal more or less.']
['That said, 16 days is not long at all. My doctor told me it can take six months to fully heal, though personally I felt 100% normal at about 3.5 months. ']
['I did it! It went smoothly and I don’t regret it. Surgery recovery is the same as a lap however I had some complications with pain but that’s probably just me I had it removed 20 (F) because that was my most painful spot. Ended up being full of endo and stuck to my organs.']
['Waiting to see how my bowel issues even out once I’m done healing from surgery, but my case seemed to be pretty mild and I was just glad I didn’t need a bowel resection. ']
['So yeah, I’m three weeks post surgery, feeling pretty much normal but still having to take it easy because incisions (especially an open one).']
['It generally takes up six months to a full year to know how well excision worked. It also seems pretty much to depend on how much was removed.']
['Mine went away! It took a couple of weeks/a month or two! You are swollen for a long time afterwards! I had my surgery last March and was better by May!']
["* Left scar: gone\n* Right scar: visible but healing nicely (it was pretty ugly for a while)\n* Belly button: I know it's there, but no one could see it"]
["I was still having intense pain for months after my lap. I think it was probably because I wasn't fully healed yet. Internal injuries take longer to heal. "]
['I had much better results after the second follow-up lap though, even though that was still ablation. They got more out and it was left me more thoroughly relieved of it.']
["Make sure the specialist would use excision to remove the endo, which is cutting it out completely, versus the typical method used called cauterization or ablation (not uterine ablation, that's a different procedure), which is just burning the surface of the endo and doesn't treat it properly. Endo has roots, so they need to be removed."]
['It depends on how extensive the growth was. Only a small amount of tissue was removed during my lap, so I have a lot of soreness opposed to pain. I took a full two weeks and was thankful to be counting down the days back- I almost went back earlier, but the time just resting was really needed.']
["My lap was a bit over two weeks ago, confirmed diagnosis of endo. My incisions are all at different stages of healing. One is completely closed, no scab. The one on my belly button is closed but there's still a line. And the lowest one still has a large scab. "]
['Hi everyone, I made a post about my laparoscopy back in March. It was to diagnose and subsequently remove endo which was found on my ovaries, uterus, and bowels. The surgery was on March 11th. I had four incisions - one on each hip, one through the belly button, and one lower down below the belly button. ']
["I have my lap tomorrow and I'm a bundle of nerves. This isn't my first surgery by any stretch, but even so. I had my diagnostic lap done a few years ago and so this is my second one. The first one was an ablation, this one is excision surgery. He told me it could take 2 hours depending on what he finds in there."]
["I'm just over a month post-op. I had Stage 2 endo excised from left and right abdominal walls (not sure of the proper name for it, but had no endo on organs). I also had a uterine polypectomy. I felt really good about 2 weeks post surgery. I took a week off from work. After my post-op 2.5 weeks after surgery, I was cleared for all activities."]
["Yeah! I had a stitch in each of the four incision sites. Had to go to my GP a week after surgery to get them snipped out. Two months on and the scars are still a bit pink, bumpy and occasionally a little itchy, but I guess I'm still healing. Such a bummer that your bigger scars are still like that 3 years on! "]
['My last surgery was over 4 hours, I have stage IV endo and while it was my 6th excision surgery, it was the first done by a good doctor.  And then post-op complications kept me in the hospital overnight.  ']
["It depends if they resect or just excise. Excision expect a bad 3-4 weeks, resection you'll have a hospital stay and recovery depends if you have a colostomy and which complications you get."]
['So I had the surgery laparoscopically. 4 tiny incisions - three on my bikini line and one in my belly button. They hacked up my uterus and pulled it through one of the incisions. ']
["I am sure you are still healing, healing takes time!. Don't forget that you had major surgery only a month ago and make sure you let yourself rest."]
['Mine also went downhill quickly. Lost 35# since January to end of May. Had lap at the end of May and doing pretty good now. ']
["My second surgery the surgeon cut through one of my nerves accidentally and they also noticed I had growths in the nerves that the surgeon wasn't skilled enough to remove. "]
['Your insides are still healing from surgery. Remember that it took years to get to the point that surgery was needed - that’s a lot of damage built up that will need time to heal.']
['I had my first lap and my pain did not resolve. I found another doc and had a second lap in which he found my organs stuck together and a ton more endo. He also did a PSN.']
['On Friday I’ll be having my third lap. I had my first one Jan 2018, then my second in Jan 2020 (they found 3 times the amount that time) and now June 4th 2021. ']
['I just had my surgery earlier today, and this happened. They accidentally cut my bowel though and a general surgeon came in too fix. Turned into a 3+ hour surgery! Did you have any complications during surgery?']
["I have an innie, and there's no visible difference. I had my lap almost a year ago and the only difference is that when I clean it, I can feel a line of scar tissue that wasn't there before."]
['Could be healing, could be adhesions in that area. Five weeks is still early. Three months is where they say yep, this will stay.']
['After having my first lap 4 weeks ago, when the surgeon says everything looked normal and no endo found, I don’t know what to do next. They didn’t take any biopsies either.']
['I had deep excision in July 2018, February 2019, and December 2020.  I’d had 4 ablations before that.  I’ve had it come back in the same places, spread, and be found in entirely new places.']
["My surgery is in less than two weeks and I'm excited and scared as hell! Getting a laparoscopic hysterectomy and excision, and then a long work vacation to recover."]
['Though I did have ablation surgery 4 years prior and not much changed. Longer recovery, then I was okay for a year but it slowly crept back to worse.']
["As far as bandages, with my lap I was told I could remove them after 48 hours, and then leave them uncovered.  With my LAVH, I didn't even have bandages, just surgical glue!"]
['Hi everyone! Quick one... I just rang the hospital where I’m having my surgery next week and they said the longest they will sign me off for is 1 week after my laparoscopy. I was hoping/expecting at least 2 weeks. ']
['If by cauterizing you mean ablation-she really needs to look into excision with a specialist. With ablation the endo is much more likely to grow back and be much deeper. ']
['Oh and my incisions are healing well. One was in my belly button and barely noticeable, the other two were about half an inch one but healing nicely']
['Mine wasn’t healing properly and kept re-opening and it looked like this. They ended up having to cauterize it, took over a month to finally heal totally ']
['definitely took me a month. i think i was scheduled to go back to work three weeks later and had to request more time off. it was a rough recovery']
['I had my 2nd lap, my first was 2 years ago.  Technically have had 3 but the first doctor missed everything, so 2nd happened pretty quick.']
['I also had the knot of the sutures on two of my incisions not dissolve properly. They took longer to heal (leaving the incision a bit open at the end) and at some point the ends of the sutures popped out and I had to trim them before it finished healing. It looked like that a bit so a possibility.']
["It's hard to say as I'm almost a year out and *still* feel like I can't say I'm fully recovered. Because so far each time I have said this before I not much later experienced either a setback or a jump forward in my recovery but usually and fortunately the latter though :) "]




Topic 8 post-op recovery
day days first home time around back gas hours week take much felt got took walk hospital work went weeks bed recovery feel could still

['Pain was nothing close to what my endo pain was like. I felt better right after the surgery. I had a long drive so my anesthesiologists gave me nerve block shots where my incisions were and that helped for a day or so. When I was just sitting on the couch it felt like I had done an ab work out for two hours. When I got up it was pretty painful or if I walked/exerted too much (aka went to the kitchen and the bathroom with out a break haha). Again it was nothing like the pain I was in with my endo. The main pain lasted about 4 days then slowly moved to just being painful if I exerted myself too much. After a week and a half I was off all my pain killers.']
['Those are all the tips I can think of! Personally, my recovery wasn’t too bad. The first 2 days were pretty rough, but I started feeling better by day 3. I think being able to shower that day made a huge difference, to be honest. By day 10, I felt great and I was totally back to normal by day 14. Some people need longer, and that’s ok! Just listen to your body and be careful not to overdo it. I think I recovered so quickly because I really made sure not to push myself. ']
['(20F) I had my lap in March and the recovery was fully fine. I woke from surgery completely coherent, went right home, and hung out. For me, I didn’t actually get shoulder pain. I had tenderness at the incisions and felt kind of sore for the first day or two, but by day 3 I was operating as normal. Getting up and down the first day was sore and slightly painful, but I was able to do it without assistance. On the whole, mine went really well.']
['Nurses were monitoring me as I woke up. I first started waking up as they wheeled me to recovery and started coughing because I was sore from intubation. I was still really sleepy, so fell back asleep in recovery for a while. Eventually woke up again and asked for a popsicle to soothe my throat. They moved me to a chair so I could eat it and have some water. I was up walking and trying to use the bathroom shortly after. It was a day surgery, so they made me pee before they’d let me go home. ']
["Luckily, the first floor of my home has a bathroom and the kitchen, so I didn't use stairs at all except to get into and out of my home. For the first week, I needed to hold on the railing and a relative's hand because I was so shaky and foggy. I honestly barely left my house for two solid weeks, so I didn't use the stairs at that time; not even to upstairs to my Mom's room or to the basement for any reason."]
["GasX will be your best friend for a couple of days! The gas they pump in you takes a couple of days to subside. Taking GasX helps it to go away faster. Also, moving around helps your body absorb the gas as well. As much as it may hurt or be uncomfortable, moving around and standing up to walk will be really good for your body after what it's went through. "]
['My biggest advice is to take it extremely easy, even if you’re feeling good. I was feeling great from the hospital drugs and kept walking around and laying on my side and stuff and it really hurt me the day after. I’m almost 48 hours post-op and in a lot of pain. As long as you take it easy, you should be alright. Don’t overdo anything and ask for help if you need it!']
['The first two days I mostly had pain from the gas and couldn’t stay upright for long or I’d get nauseous/dizzy. My mom did everything for me, I stayed in bed while she brought food to me etc. Moving around was a lot of work and tiring. By the third day the gas was gone and I was walking around, my mom and I even went out to get some things for my apartment. ']
['Honestly I was in more pain before I went into surgery than I was when I came out, but apparently in my anesthesia haze I told the recovery nurse I was in pain, so she gave me a pretty strong cocktail of pain meds. The gas pains were FAR worse than any pain I had from surgery. I took Vicodin mostly for that the first day, and then went to ibuprofen because the Vicodin made me feel like I was going to faint. Not fun!']
["It really wasn't bad at all. The worse pain for me was the shoulder pain, but that went away after day 2. I felt so much better than before the surgery. I only took ibuprofen for the first day for the pain. My surgery was on a Friday and I was back to work by Thursday. I did take it slow at work that Thursday and Friday, but then I was fine. This was my first surgery besides my wisdom teeth, and I was totally nervous too."]
['I was given Percocet for 5 days post-surgery up to 5/day but I usually only took 3/day. Honestly I don’t know how I would have managed without it. I tried to take it as little as possible, but the first two days after surgery (not day of, that was great from the hospital drugs) were honestly pretty rough but the Percocets made it a little less horrible...']
['For me the gas pain was the oof, but it gets bettera few minutes after you start walking around (the only time i was like aahhhhh was when i would fall asleep and stay still for a long time, but again, walking helped). After that passed, just tender, not painful.\nI had fentanyl on PCA pump but once the gas pain was gone, they removed the pump and I felt less pain than before the lap.']
['The main part of recovery was the first couple weeks. I walked my dog (slowly and only for maybe 10 minutes at a time) the day after surgery. But the next week I walked him for almost 2 miles and I definitely overdid it...I felt like I needed to hold my belly. I would expect a more intensive surgery to have a longer recovery time.']
['For the most part, the worst is your stomach feeling so full of gas (and bruising) that you struggle to get up off the couch.  I had some pretty painful bruising and just general soreness that I had to get help in getting up.  I was really tired for a good few days but the general pain passed within three or four.  The gas pain in your shoulder kinda sucks too.']
["I know everyone is different, but I didn't need painkillers at all so far, and they told me I should move around asap. I have some pain from the incisions and my shoulders kinda hurt, but it's fine overall. I need some help with laundry and cooking and my bf is coming to stay with me this weekend so he can help me shower, but I can sit and stand and walk just fine."]
['i was pretty out of it for a few days and then on day 5 or so i left the house for the first time. i wasn’t even out an hour and when i got home i needed a nap. i was feeling better each day after that but wasn’t normal for a few weeks. it just depends on how you handle it but if you want to be safe i would say 1.5/2 weeks']
['I had 4 nurses on me for a solid 2 ish hours in recovery, ended up getting hooked up to a PCA (basically a button where I can administer myself fentanyl every five minutes). I was kept on the PCA for over 24 hours, was on oxygen for 48 hours, and had to get my bladder emptied manually twice, and then had to have an overnight catheter in.']
["You need to remember that even though your incisions are small, you had pretty major abdominal surgery! Your body is healing a ton on the inside, and being under general anesthetic is really hard on you. Take it easy for a few days. I'm sure you'll feel much better by the time you head back to work.  "]
["1- When you come out of anaesthesia, you will feel very nauseated and dizzy. I was discharged and before we could even make it to the elevator they had to take me back to the recovery room to lay down for a bit because I thought I was going to puke all over the place. The only way I managed to get home was, I closed my eyes any time I was moving, so I closed my eyes as they wheeled me to the car and then again in the car until we got home. Getting inside was a struggle, so I just laid on the first couch I was able to lay on and asked for a bucket (which luckily I didn't use). "]
['I remember being really nervous before the procedure, the staff were all nice before I knew it the took me to the surgery room, had me counting backwards and then I went under lol I then woke up in my room. I remember being ready to leave the hospital to go home. I think I stayed in my room for a couple of hours, it wasn’t over night. ']
['i’m just laying in my hospital bed right now recovering, in a decent amount of pain. they keep giving me more meds which work for a little, but i’m still pretty pretty sore and very thankful to be able to stay overnight. moving hurts more than anything, but hopefully that wears off quickly. ']
['The first two weeks I was resting most of the time. I started to feel restless after that but would get super tired so even though I wanted to do more I couldn’t stay active for long and then would need a nap. I was definitely super excited to be back at work after 4 weeks at home. ']
['I had my lap surgery on a Tuesday and I took the rest of the week to rest/relax and feel better. I went back to work/school on the Monday doing half days and then I was full time/normal hours on Thursday. My recovery was hard for me because I took the bus to get to work/school and the bumpy rides were very uncomfortable until I was more healed.']
["Without pushing yourself, make sure that you don't stick to bed rest too much. A little bit of walking around can help you heal a little bit faster. You had a lot done. Relax, rest,  take the time you need to heal."]
["\nDoing anything 2 weeks post op was hard for me, 1 week post op was IMPOSSIBLE. But for my little sister, 3 weeks post op for her she was back to normal. Everyone us different. It will be impossible to rush your body to do activity before you're ready. You will end up immobile on the couch for a day or two."]
['I spent most of the first couple days home sleeping because I was exhausted, but I had no problem walking around or going up and down stairs. I was very bloated and couldn’t bend over or get up from flat on my back (if I was propped up it was ok because I could roll myself up). I also could not comfortably sleep on my side or stomach.  ']
['Yes. My pain wasn’t bad the first day after I got home, but the second day was terrible (and I didn’t fill my pain meds before surgery, so my husband had to run and get them). I needed my pain meds for the first few days and wish I had taken them more regularly to help with the pain while peeing the first few days. ']
['I actually was able to sleep on my side quite comfortably, as I could curl up my knees and not have my stomach stretched out (which hurt). It wasn’t fun to get into position, but I had lots of pillows propped around my head and overall it was as good a position as any I think?']
['I use gas x with meals to prevent gas. You can take it when you have gas it just takes a bit longer to work. You could put a little step stool in front of the toilet so you can get in a squat position to help you pass wind more comfortably. ']
['But full recovery? Weeks. Took me 10 last time to feel normal again and probably 16 to fit into everything that I could before. This time I was a bit more prepped, but if they are doing WORK inside of you, take 2 weeks off at a minimum if you can. Don’t push. Take your pain meds. Don’t. Cough.']
['The nurses got me up and walking within a few hours after getting back to my room from the PACU. If you’re having a cystoscopy then expect to have a catheter for at least 24 hours after surgery. If you’re having VATS then expect to have a chest tube for at least 24-48 hours until your lung is fully inflated.']
['I was back to work in a week. I had my op on the wed and went back on the Monday. I do ironing so lifting heavy bags and on my feet a lot. Week one I took on 1/2 my normal about and took my time week 2 I was back to normal.']
["I had my surgery yesterday. My husband was allowed to come into the hospital and wait in the surgery area lobby but he wasn't allowed back in pre-op or in recovery. I was definitely nervous doing it alone but the nurses and my doctor were so amazing, they made me feel really comfortable. I started having a panic attack and almost started crying when we got into the OR and I think the anesthesiologist realized it and put me out right away. It was definitely not as bad as I thought it would be, to do it alone."]
['I had my surgery on thursday and last night was the first night I could try to sleep in my side. I put pillows on both of my sides as extra cushions and it felt good. It also was the first night I stopped taking my oxy and I did very well!']
['For the first week I spent most of my time on the couch with pillows/cushions under my legs so they were bent, with my back propped up (slightly closer to "upright" when I was awake slightly closer to "laying" when I slept, but never actually sitting up or fully laying down).']
["When things were bad for me I had about an hour of energy a day, literally. I could do a load of laundry and dishes and I was back in bed, sleeping 10 hours a night. Even when I couldn't sleep I was so tired I'd just have to lay in bed. It's our curse!"]
["I had the cough and it was from the breathing tube. I know it hurts to cough but it's important to get the phlegm out to prevent pnemonia etc, so hold a pillow to your stomach and cough when needed. also take cough drops. a few days on,I no longer had the cough. good luck!"]
["It's been two weeks today and I thought I was feeling better over the weekend, but I'm still a bit tender down my left side (where most of the endo was) when I stand up or even sitting down for a while. It comes and goes. I really wanted to get back to the gym tonight but now I'm not so sure!"]
[' I was walking around the recovery ward a few hours after surgery, and went home that night. The first week after surgery was uncomfortable but not very painful. I felt mostly normal by 2 weeks and well enough time go out for easy runs at 3 weeks.']
['4) The most painful was the wheelchair ride from the hospital room to the car. I cried because it was so painful. The car ride home was so painful. I never realized the paved roads actually could move the body around so much.']
['I’m in the US, where they kick you out of the hospital asap, so was only kept for about 24 hours. They took the chest tube out the next morning, stitched that site up, and sent me home with a spirometer - which is a device used for breathing exercises. I was to use this to take ten breaths per hour every hour I was awake. I could only do 5 at first. I was able to get in and out of bed and move around a LOT better than after the abdominal laps, which was a pleasant surprise. My house has a lot of stairs, and those were no problem. Needed help showering the first 2 times because I couldn’t lift my left arm very well. ']
['Also they will give you painkillers during and after surgery. If anything they give you more pain meds than you need - I remember waking up from the first op and feeling like I needed to pee. The nurse insisted it was just the pain and gave me a few doses of morphine before eventually getting me a bed pan!']
['Recovery takes time but after 4 days I was able to slowly walk around and after a week I did my first walk around the block. It took around a week and a half to two weeks to go on proper walks']
['I felt good after the surgery but day 2 gas was bad. Take it easy, listen to your body. But try and keep moving if you can but don’t feel bad if you can’t. Today I walked around my garden for 10 minutes to get some fresh air. ']
["3) Move. Really really. Within a few hours of waking up make sure to get your butt up and moving. Don't go running around lifting heavy stuff, but take some laps around your house. It'll be unpleasant, but it will help you heal faster."]
["Someone will be with you when you wake up, they will never leave you unattended whilst you are still under anaesthesia. You'll likely wake up in the operating room, for me personally I woke up in the same spot I was an hour earlier with several nurses tidying up around me."]
["I was fine for work with in a couple of days, just couldn't drive. If you can do it from home, I think you'll be fine, just be careful sitting in a computer chair for hours and hours. Take the laptop to bed if you can. Body pillows are your friend!"]
['Take plenty of time off! As much as you’re able to. You need as much rest as you can get, it’s a tiresome procedure. Don’t lie completely flat afterwards, you might get pain in your shoulders from gas if you do! Nap, eat, rest, get better. Even after you’re back on your feet, take care of your wounds. Don’t let them get infected! And make sure you have someone to take care of you for at least a few days. :)']
['I feel you on this.\nThis literally happened to me two days ago. Stuck in my car in my work’s parking lot couldn’t move because of the pain and had to call out.  All over my tummy - It was the worse pain - 2 days later still sore .']
['As for other bits about the surgery, this was surgery #3 for me, and it was by far the easiest recovery. I was up walking around that day, the worst pain was in my shoulders as the gas moved up the them (and post shoulder op my shoulder doesn’t handle pressure well). Walking helped a lot!']
['Quadrupling up on the six week mark being my point for being able to move around more comfortably. I did go out and walk almost every day post op, but it was at the speed of a turtle and required rest and recovery time afterwards.']
['By Day 7, I felt pretty okay. I’d taken off two weeks and basically I’d do whatever I felt like for a few hours, lie down for an hour, repeat. I set an alarm to remind myself to lie down just because if I didn’t, all of a sudden I’d hurt.']
['It ended up going really well! It was like I blinked and woke up. The healing process wasn’t too bad; I was pretty drugged the first few days so honestly I don’t remember much other than being super nauseous once I got home. ']
["Make sure the car seat can lean back so maybe you can take a nap during the drive :) be sure to empty your bladder before the ride  you won't want to stop at a gas station to pee. "]
['I couldn’t walk for the first week, and was doubled over for about 12 days. By the start of week 3, I could walk for short distances like the car to the office. I had the surgery on a Wednesday, and went back to work on the third Monday. ']
['I was super uncomfortable the first 3 days after my lap. I needed assistant every time I got off the couch and laid back down. In my experience, I wouldn’t go to the dance. You need to allow yourself to recover properly ❤️']
['As it was more complicated I had to stay in hospital overnight even though I got my lap done in the morning. I was feeling really really sick when I woke up and lying down helped. I am like you and am really scared of being sick so I never tried to sit up. The nurse in the evening pushed me to sit up, I ended up being sick and feeling so much better after. Each time I got up, it got better and better. ']
["The pain from the gas trapped in your body won't be fun. As much as it hurts to move, moving is the only way to get rid of it. Get up and walk around, even just around your home. It's gonna suck, but force yourself to do it."]
['You’re going to do great! Make sure to take it easy after the surgery. Bring a pillow for the ride home that you can hold against your abdomen. It will help with all the jostling in the car. Also be sure to stay on top of your pain meds.']
['Take it easy the next few days. Even if you feel fine. I got up the next day and was walking around and doing stuff as normal then cried myself to sleep at night because the pain hit later. ']
['A recliner or sleeping on the couch might work better for the first couple of days. Laying flat is really painful. You’ll want to sleep more upright and then slowly lay down over then next week or so.']
['I couldn’t stand up straight while walking for a week. I started to get concerned but eventually the walking got easier and stopped hurting. activated charcoal tablets really helped me with all the gas build up too']
['I also knew that I\'d need to walk around frequently to help with gas pains and constipation, and I made myself as prepared as possible. I cleaned the house the day  before my surgery so I wouldn\'t have to worry about that, made myself a "bedside basket" with everything I\'d need, prepped all my meds into a pill organizer so they\'d be set for a week. I really just did everything I\'d need to do for a week resting, and I\'m so glad I did.']
["I'd say the worst part of recovery was the pain getting in and out of bed and clearing my throat/coughing. I figured out the hard way that I needed to take my pain meds before moving for the first week. At one point I got stuck in the standing position and couldn't get back into bed because i had accidentally coughed while on my walk around the house. Phlegm got stuck in my throat so I was having trouble breathing and I was in too much pain to clear it. You definitely need to be propping yourself up in bed to avoid this and do the breathing thing they give you frequently. "]
['Definitely plan for help at least for the first couple days. As others have said you’ll probably be able to get up and move around but you’ll be uncomfortable and exhausted. You also won’t be able to bend down or pick anything heavy up. Also getting out of bed by yourself might challenging for the first couple of days since you can’t really use your abdominal muscles.']
['My wisdom teeth were very much like yours, except I cried so hard that they asked the friend picking me up to “come back in a little while so I could sleep it off a bit more.” The anesthetic just made me weepy, I was fine with the pain.  I think I slept for another two hours and then was okay! I definitely couldn’t drive but I wasn’t in much pain and I wasn’t crying. ']
['My husband was allowed to be there in post op but I didn’t really care because I was so tired from the anesthesia and pain meds. You’ll get something to eat and drink afterwards and the nurse will want you to go to the bathroom to pee before you leave. Then when you’re able to walk around and go to the bathroom you should be able to be wheeled out and leave. The worst part was the recovery time at home. The hospital time wasn’t traumatic for me.']
["I wasn't allowed to put one on my stomach, but the nurse told me to put one on my back. It did help a lot with the gas and shoulder pain, as well as making me more comfortable in general. "]
["Listen to your body. My MIL gave me her shower chair to sit on (we have a walk in shower) and I don't think I would've been able to shower if I wasn't sitting down. My husband had to do all the soaping and scrubbing for me the first week "]
['Fifth day started off hard, but little laps around the house helped. Sat in a lot of different chairs. Still can’t lay down and get up comfortably, so still in a recliner. ']
['- The day of surgery stay in bed until you can adjust to everything going on. The next day, get up and start walking even if it’s a few extra steps. This will help with the gas and will help you recover faster.']
['I could go to the bathroom and get up and down by myself. Day one I mostly slept, with a few walk breaks. Getting up was hard and took a while, but could still do It alone. Have a lot of pillows around, which will help. ']
["I think I'm going to make my dining room a recovery room.  I have to walk through the kitchen to get to the bathroom, but I think it's better than my bedroom with it's own bathroom that is up stairs.  There is so much strategizing!  Lol!"]
['In terms of pain, I kept a ice pack on my belly for the first 3 days (with breaks) and then on/off as needed after that. I couldn’t sit up without help for the first 2 days, then it became more doable after that. ']
["it happened to me and I was NOT prepared. mine were so bad that I couldn't drive home afterwards. lasted like that for about a day and a half before it started to calm down. I was back to my normal pain by the morning of day 3 though"]
["\nI'm off pain killers as of Monday morning, I'm a tad sore but it's more of a super slight annoying reminder to take it slow rather than something I'd bother taking Tylenol for. I've been staying hydrated and walking around my apartment to keep moving but make sure I sit down if I feel tired. I have been sleeping far more than usual for me.   "]
['- Wednesday and Thursday *really* tired  \n- Wednesday, Thursday, Friday pain 100% managed by Tylenol + ibuprofen, nothing needed since then\n- the constipation is real\n- really gassy until Saturday morning, right shoulder hurt until the gas faded\n- throat really sore from the tube Wednesday and Thursday, handled with cough drops and water. Little scratchy Friday, entirely fine now  \n- slow and careful walking around Wednesday and Thursday per discharge instructions, back at 90% of usual movement Friday afternoon (my directions said to go back to usual routine as tolerated after 48h)']
["I didn't have the shoulder pain, but I did feel awful the next day. It took me 4 days to poop after but I took a stool softener every day so when it did happen it wasn't so painful. I also had a hard time peeing for the first 2 days but that came back to normal as well. You'll get there. The third and fourth day started to get better."]
['I’m feeling much better this week. Last week was sort of tough, made sure to baby myself a little bit and not do anything I was uncomfortable with. Just be sure to listen to your body and rest when you need to. I think the worst part was the initial shoulder and stomach pain from the gas they use to inflate your abdomen.']
['I went into surgery, went under, then woke up in post-op which I don’t really remember, it was fuzzy and I was on painkillers. After post-op o was taken to recovery where my husband was waiting for me and I was observed for a few more hours. Coming out of anesthesia made me sick so they gave me something for that. I wasn’t allowed to leave until I had gone pee so eventually I hobbled to the washroom and did that.. there will be blood, that is normal.']
['I was super shocked with how little pain I was in - my shoulders were definitely the worst part of it! I could walk around quite okay, just a little shaky. One thing I will definitely warn you about is that I peed some blood when I went at the hospital. This is super normal and it did go away the next time I peed. So don’t panic if it happens to you!']
['Move around as much as you can,  but take it easy. Get up to get water every few hours,  go to the bathroom,  sit up and watch TV. But if you feel tired,  sleep. Sleep is the best thing for you. ']
["I about killed myself laughing making this lol \nYeah went really well. Voice is dying and I'm still extremely tired bc I cant sleep on my back I'm a tummy sleeper"]
['The Percocet they gave me for post op pain also made me so so so sick, I vomited every hour on the hour for the first 8 hours after surgery. My fiancé had to hold the bowl for me to throw up and clean it out afterward. ']
["Ok that helps me a lot!! I'd rather give myself extra days then be short when I need it. I take the train to work so less jostling around but idk how the stairs will feel."]
['For me, I absolutely could not get up by myself after the surgery. It was important to have my boyfriend at home with me for the first 2-3 days afterward just so he could get me off the couch when I needed to go. I tried on my own a couple times and it really hurt. So having an assistant was a must have for me.']
["For post op make sure you're walking! Walking helps to alleviate gas pain and keep your insides moving. I was told to get up and walk for a few minutes every hour or two. "]
["You're gonna be out of it for a little bit afterwards but they should take good care of you. The whole time for me took a total of 6 hours but they also requested I come in 2 hours before my surgery so the process was actually only 4."]
['my surgery also happened much quicker than expected and i actually preferred that because it gave me less time to worry about it. however i did not properly prepare for how much pain i would have after, so be prepared to be sore and tired for a week or two. overall, i would just say to get some things ready that will help you be comfortable and relaxed in the days after your surgery. good luck!!']
['After surgery, I felt sore, like too many crunches or something...like pushing a little too far at the gym, and I had some air in my shoulders that worked itself out. I was off pain killers on day two and walking around the next day. I still got tired pretty easy for a couple weeks, but have been great ever since.']
['I found that getting up was easier if I pushed up on one side until I was mostly up, swung my legs off the bed, and then turned to sit up fully. I also used a toddler bedrail for leverage because we had one on hand, but anything stable next to the bed to grab should work. Maybe the back of a chair, a cane, etc.']
["Hey! I went through the same thing. Wisdom teeth weren't fun for me either - I woke up part way through! Ekks! But, hey - Here's the thing - when you get your wisdom teeth out, they don't put you under the same way as they will for the lap. For dental surgery, they don't really put you *out* all the way, they just make you woozy on laughing gas and some other stuff - you're still actually conscious. But they're going to put you all the way out for the lap. You won't be able to be panicked and sobbing, because you'll be unconcious (in the good way)."]
['I tried VERY easy lifting about 4 weeks after surgery, and it hurt for days afterward. I regretted it. Your abs still need time to heal. Take it super easy.']
['Able to walk but was slow and stiff at first. Definitely couldn’t walk far and not without pain medication but again, it got a lot easier after the first few days.']
['Once I was home, every now and then I would get a painful twinge in my stomach and my shoulders ached from the gas. But other than that, I was fine. As long as you stay on top of taking your painkillers, it shouldn’t be painful. ']
["I really did expect to feel horrendous, and whilst I don't feel good, I have been doing hourly laps around the house for a few minutes, and have spent the rest of the day propped up in bed. "]
["I had to spend the night in the hospital and they wouldn't release me until I've peed without a catheter and walked a lap around the floor. I would not wish that on my worst enemy, but at least it's over."]
['Second day as in, not the first day after surgery, but the second day? Or the day after surgery? I ask because yesterday I had my surgery and today my gas pains are really not that bad. Trying to be aware of what to expect!']
['Today I only have 7/10 pain but I am so stiff that I can barely move. As if my muscles are hard and usable to bend properly. I need to clean today the office... I dont know how i am going to do it :(']
['Day 3/4 I started moving around more, walking to the mailbox, etc. I was still tired but I took a shower and moved around the apartment a bit. ']




